PLATFORMS

Only linux is officially supported, but every platform that utilizes X11
should be directly compatible. The toolkit and support libraries from e17
(http://www.enlightenment.org/) support windows using either the directdraw,
gdi or direct3d engine, and MAX OSX could work natively with the cocoar engine,
but those platforms probably require some adaptions.




INSTALL

(on linux)
Lime requires the development packages of the following libraries (the first
three packages might also be installed via the e17 meta-package on some
distributions, which installs the whole e17 desktop).

libeina
libeio
libelementary
libtiff4
libjpeg
liblcms2

On debian and derivatives you might just execute:
apt-get install libeina-dev libeio-dev libelementary-dev libtiff4-dev liblcms2-dev


Compilation

Once the required packages are installed, change into the lime directory and do:
cmake .
make

And for installation (optional):
make install (as root)
ldconfig (as root)




USAGE

Applications installed by the procedure above are "limeview" and "limedo".

limeview will allow to view and edit the images in the working directory or
in a directory given as argument. limedo will execute the filter graph
and does not include a gui. Bot take arguments to add filters to the filter
graph, in the case of limeview those can be changed afterwards in the gui.
The delete function int limeview only move the currently selected file to
a "deleted" subfolder if that is available, and does nothing if the 
folder does not exist. It does not acutally delete any file. Both programs 
allow to set cache size and metrics and limeview allows some benchmarking.
Call with --help to get more informations.

examples:

limedo gauss=100.0 savetiff=0,blurred.tif inputimage.tif

This will filter inputimage.tif with a gaussian blur with sigma=100 and
then save it to blurred.tif, in the sRGB color space (first option of savetiff).


limedo contrast=4.0 compare=1 inputimage.tif

This command will load inputimage and apply the contrast and compare filter, which
will compare the scaled and the full scale result in the LAB color space (compare=1)
and continuously print the maximum difference.


limeview -s 500 /bla/blub/somewhere denoise

This command will start limeview with a cache size of 500 megabytes to view
the folder /bla/blub/somwhere and add the denoise filter to the graph.


limeview -s 10 -b global inputimage.tif

This will execute the "global" benchmark on inputimage.tif with a cache size of
10 megabytes. Note this command does not show a gui, everything is only rendered
to a memory buffer.

